
Because PDGs are a recent theoretical development, there is a lot of guesswork in evaluating the impact. Here are two views of opposit polarities.

\subsection{Positive Impacts}
One can imagine many applications of enabling simple and coherent aggregation of (possibly inconsistent) information. In particular we can imagine using PDGs to build and interpret a communal and global database of statistical models, in a way that may not only enable more accurate predictions, but also highlights conflicts between information.

This could have a critical impact on the state of fairness. Suppose, for instance, that two reserachers train models, but use datasets with different racial makeups. Rather than trying to get an uninterpretable model to "get it right" the first time, we could simply highlight any such clashes and flag them for review---without needing to see feedback from the rest of the world.

It is well-known that the statistically optimal prediction will generally not be well-calibrated and fair. Rather than trying to ensure fairness by design which is both tricky (it is heavily dependent on nailing down the vague concept of fairness "properly"), and potentially costly, we envision an alternative: simply use statistically optimal results but flag conflicts for human review, and allow the governance and social systems to perform the appropriate resolutions, rather than fiddling with loss functions ourselves.

\subsection{Negative Impacts}

We can also imagine less rosy outcomes. To the extent that PDGs can model and reason with inconsistency, one might worry that PDGs will reproduce some of the ``less rational'' human behavior. Because PDGs make it so easy to add information without computation, one can imagine a naive implementation being particularly vulnerable to attacks where it is fed more data than it can reasonably process. As we adopt the attitude that a PDG need not wait until it is consistent for use, it is not hard to see a world where it gives very biased and poorly-thought out conclusions---such a PDG might be likened to a conspiracy theorist, constantly absorbing too much information to process it correctly. It is clear that PDGs need a great deal more vetting before they can be used for such important purposes as aggregating the world's statistical knowledge.

PDGs are powerful statistical models, but are by necessity semantically more complicated than many existing methods. This will likely restrict their accesibility. To mitigate this, we commit to making sure our work is widely accessible to researchers of different backgrounds, and to posting general-audience versions of our work publically. 


\subsection {Beneficiaries}
This work is still quite theoretical, and we do not view it as benefiting any party in particular. 
