Example:	if x = 0, then y = uniform (many values)
			if x = x1, then y = y1

For instance, Grok starts to notice that there is a letter in her mailbox, then her neighbor always has the same letter in his mailbox. If Grok has no letters, her neighbor has a one of many letters (Grok has been keeping track of the conditional distribution, which is nearly uniform). Together this form a cpt which we call $p$. 

You have no idea how often or Grok gets letters or why. Which of the following intuitively seems to be a more likely marginals on Grok and her neighbor's letters?
 	(1) She get a letter with 50/50 probability, and her neighbor gets a particular one with 50% probability, and others with small, equal probabilities which add to 50%
		
	(2) Grok is much more likely not to get a letter, and her neighbor gets letters with roughly uniform probability.
	
Though we could tell other stories with the same cpt, where the answer feels different, for this story, it seems natural to conclude that option (2) is more reasonable. If the number of possible letters is large, this corresponds to a very small alpha. 


What differs between scenarios (1) and (2)?
If clearly the answer were (1), we are imagining the information in p to be rougly causal: 
	- conditional independences hold (?)
	- counter-factually, if the world were to change and Grok always got letters, we would expect the correlation in the CPT to still exist.
If clearly (2) were more appropriate, we think of the table as being merely some conditional marginal that happens to hold of the joint distribution;
	- changes to upstream variables may not preserve this link. 


This is related to a causal intuition: that if one were to intervene by giving Grok a letter, we would not expect her neighbor's letters to be randomized.
However, an intervention is too strong: if we merely have observational reasons to believe that Grok received some letters and not others, then we will still expect a correlation --- even though there are probably confounders that may have caused the correlation not to hold had we intervened.  
